Computer security's nowadays a critical – yet, sadly enough, regularly underestimated – matter. Users often fail to understand why they should care. *Security* is an ubiquitous factor of human life, typically perceived in one of its aspects by people: as their **physical security**. A person for instance usually doesn't climb mountains without climbing gear, because they see the risks and possible fatal consequences. **Computer security** is mostly an abstract term where the risks and possible fatal consequences aren't visible to the eye and their depiction requires a significant portion of one's imagination. This attribute along with insufficient education of the general public make for the main reason people don't understand that *neglected computer security may come with similarly fatal consequences as neglected physical security*.

Our society largely depends on computer systems and smart devices – e.g. water treatment, food or pharma production, smart cars, home security systems, military, finance management, personal communication,&#8230; And this dependance will probably only rise. An attacker can effectively posion a whole city by attacking a water treatment facility, attacking a smart car would probably result in fatal consequences for the passengers. However, even in an event of personal device hack, the extraction and leakage of sensitive data may prove fatal to the user. It's therefore essential **everyone accepts computer security as an everyday factor of their lives** and treats it equally as their physical security.

No device can ever be 100% secure as there are too many variables in the process (physical security, HW, SW, user comfort,&#8230;). Security's all about compromise. Chapters of this handbook focus on achieving the most effective security with minimum user comfort loss. If everyone adhered to the provided recommendations and applied the proveded steps, attacking user devices would prove much more difficult and, in result, expensive.
